Learning Objectives:-
Perform a rolling update of the container version
Roll back to the previous working state


Problem Statement:-
Your company's developers have just finished developing a new version of their candy-themed mobile game. They are ready to update the backend services that are running in your Kubernetes cluster. There is a deployment in the cluster managing the replicas for this application. The deployment is called candy-deployment. 

candy-deployment.yaml
--------------------------
apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: candy-deployment
spec:
  replicas: 2
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: candy-ws
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: candy-ws
    spec:
      containers:
      - image: linuxacademycontent/candy-service:2
        name: candy-ws


You have been asked to update the image for the container named candy-ws in this deployment template to a new version, linuxacademycontent/candy-service:3.

After you have updated the image using a rolling update, check on the status of the update to make sure it is working. If it is not working, perform a rollback to the previous state.

Make sure that the rolling update is in such a way that atleast 25% of pods are up and running during update with Zero downtime.







sol:-
Perform a rolling update of the container version
Update the deployment to the new version like so:

kubectl set image deployment/candy-deployment candy-ws=linuxacademycontent/candy-service:3 --record
Check the progress of the rolling update:

kubectl rollout status deployment/candy-deployment
If the update is not finished after a few minutes, something may be wrong with the update.

Roll back to the previous working state
In this scenario, the rolling update should fail. This is because the specified image, linuxacademycontent/candy-service:3, does not exist. Roll back to the previous version to get things working again.

Get a list of previous revisions.

kubectl rollout history deployment/candy-deployment
Undo the last revision.

kubectl rollout undo deployment/candy-deployment
Check the status of the rollout.

kubectl rollout status deployment/candy-deployment
This command should complete soon, saying the rollout was successful.